@test_neo4j_connection.py @graphiti_ingest_test.py what about these scripts? Are
they following the best paractices of the graphitti library and examples?

I noticed you mentioned this:Add Better Validation: Before calling add_episode,
add checks to validate the data format matches what Graphiti expects. Does this
not suggest that potentially a pydantic model in this case with validation would
be a better approach for delivering what Graffiti expects. I don't know if this
is a super dynamic situation that would require unlimited model creations or
whether this is a case where we can define the model properly and make it a
universal solution. Discuss. Otherwise please implement all your suggestions
after we have this dioscuission. Wait for me to say go.

I keep seeing this statement so many times in the output. I know there are
general warnings, but I see this constantly. Are we running into issues with too
many consecutive API calls, or are we being throuttled or haviong unproductive
api calls? 2025-06-07 22:40:02,571 - google_genai.models - INFO - AFC is enabled
with max remote calls: 10.

Please read the file at c:\Users\kevin\repos\kev-graph-rag\Project
Documentation\ai_bootstrap_context.md to quickly understand the project context.

#### 

We are starting a new chat. Here is our context of where we are in our current
ingestionbuildplan.md which reflects part of our overall project.
@ingestionbuildplan.md

After line 470 in @buildprogress.md, you can see our current context

Our project uses Supabase, Llama Index, Neo4j, Neo4j Aura Database, and the
google gemini python sdk google-genai. All these frameworks have significantly
advanced since your last knowledge cutoff, so you will have to make sure that
you are researching theseboard, selection, LangGraph functionality and coding
approaches. I will also feed you context, like here is an update on the Google
GenAI SDK and latest embedding model.@migrate to genai sdk
@generate-gemini-embedding-exp-03-07-embeddings.md

C:\Users\kevin\repos\kev-graph-rag is our root project

## 

These directories are read only: C:\Users\kevin\repos\graphiti
C:\Users\kevin\repos\kev_adv_rag
